>> Ben Callahan: Cool so let's talk about
how we can use JavaScript in responsive.
The title of this I have chosen
is JavaScript To The Rescue
because I feel like there's a lot of cases
that we've been kind of talking all day
long about these techniques and
constantly you've heard me say you know
well with that browser you kind of have
to do this, and with that browser.
Now this is kind of the world we live
in right now with all these different
browsers and
not only different browsers now different
devices running different browsers.
There's just a lot of
compatibility issues.
And browsers are evolving much more
rapidly today than they have ever
and support for
new features is just coming in like crazy.
The trick is kind of getting our users to
adopt those browsers and adopt the latest.
While all of us are probably on the latest
versions of Chrome or whatever,
we need to make sure we're thinking
about the older browsers, older devices.
So we're gonna talk about
a few different things.
Media queries and
one of the things that we see a lot
of the being done with JavaScript
in this space is polyfills and
actually I think Mark asked
about this right away.
I spent a good amount of time
explaining to you guys how we support,
how we serve a large
resolution layout to IE 8 and
older, browsers that don't, those
browsers don't support media queries.
And this is another way
that you can do that.
Obviously, it is dependent
on JavaScript and
there are some performance concerns
because your JavaScript's gonna run after
that page is loaded it's gonna
move things around, it's gotta,
yeah there's some work to do some
processing that has to take place.
There's two fairly well known
polyfills for media queries and
there's actually probably a dozen more.
These are ones that I've actually used.
So Scott Jell's written probably
the most popular one respond JS.
I like Scott's because it's
incredibly lightweight.
He's only supporting that min and
max width.
He's not looking at trying to support
all the different media types and
all the different media features.
Really just focused on width, and
so allowed him to create
a much leaner approach.
And those are really the features
that we use in media queries,
the width one, generally.
And so that's a good good option for you.
CSS3 media queries JS is actually
also pretty effective it.
I think he's implemented a lot more than
just the min and max width media features.
So two options and I mean these are so
simple to use literally
you just kind of you build your site and
you just include this you know.
And things kind of start working.
So that's the beauty of a polyfill
in pop over to the browser here.
So here is in GitHub
here's Scott's respond JS.
I mean, it's about as simple to
use as you can imagine, and what this will
do is basically make media queries work in
browsers that don't support them natively.
Use cases for us,
we've used this in particular.
We had a client come to us and they said
that they wanted to build a website that
would also function as
a Facebook application.
If you've messed with Facebook apps at
all, they not too long ago introduced
the idea of sort of an i framed
website as a Facebook app.
I think there i frame is at 739 pixels or
something weird but
the idea is that the website we built
would have to be responsive and
have to work on its own
as a standalone site but
also when it's i framed into
a Facebook app at 700ish pixels.
And so
we started to experiment with this and
we built our site just like we
normally would and it worked well.
The challenge was though, that they
needed it to work well in old IE,
because all of their, almost like 80% of
their traffic on Facebook was IE8 or back.
And so we all of a sudden, now we were
serving a completely different layout that
kind of felt a little bit
broken to those users because
the client really wanted the experience to
be on a sort of a two column experience.
So, we implemented respond
JS in that scenario and
it actually worked really well.
So that's the kind of use case that
we've found that we kind of wanted
when we want to be able to
support those browsers.
And we need, say,
that mid tier layout to be visible.
Which was that case.
Our techniques now basically
serve the largest layout
to browsers that don't support it.
So.
I mean, really simple to use.
And this thing has matured quite a bit.
Originally, you had to do
some special comments and
stuff at the end of query blocks and
all kinds of things,
but he's kind of gotten rid of all that,
and it's actually working pretty well.
>> Ben Callahan: Okay.
>> Ben Callahan: Those links, again, are
both in this slide, so if you find that
you need to get support for media queries
in older browsers, these are two options.
And then matchMedia is
another thing that's
incredibly useful as soon
as you start to play with
especially scenarios like a common
example would be in navigation.
Where you've got the same
navigation that's working in
different resolutions but it has
a different interaction model in both.
We see that we have these kind of large
navs that maybe do drop downs with
hovers those kinds of things.
And then at a small resolution that
same nav needs to work very differently.
I need to touch to kinda drill in so
it's a completely different model.
And in cases where we expect the
interaction to change as we also change
widths or as we crossover breakpoints
in our immediate queries breakpoints.
This matchMedia would be very helpful.
And you can do some cool stuff with this.
I'm gonna show you guys some polyfills and
some wrappers that actually make
this a bit more functional.
But you can see the idea
is that programmatically,
I can say if the current state,
if I'm matching a min width 400,
then I can do some write
some code here versus here.
So this gives you an opportunity
kind of make some decisions
in the at the interaction
layer about how things behave
based on resolution based on
media query support actually.
And so some polyfills in wrappers,
the matchMedia API is
incredibly well supported.
Actually, all the modern browsers
implement this pretty well.
But Paul Irish and Scott and
a couple other guys,
I think, put together matchMedia JS.
Which just sort of helps
this to work in older
in older browsers they
don't have support yet.
And then my guys Rob Tarr
has written a wrapper for
this and the guys at Harvest have
written something called Harvey.
Both of these things do
the same kind of stuff.
We'll take a quick look at
the the repos for these as well.
The idea here is to help you sort of bind
some functionality to entering and
exiting media queries.
So you could do that with a listener and
stuff with match media.
But they just have made it very
simple to do with these wrappers.
So let's take a quick
look at some of those.
>> Ben Callahan: So this is matchMedia
which is the polyfill for matchMedia,
matchMedia.js, polyfill for matchMedia.
It's actually fairly simple to use and
it just kinda creates a little bit better
cross browser support for the API itself.
And then I mentioned Harvest
has created this Harvey.
Let's see here they have an example.
>> Ben Callahan: So,
right over here is kind of what's,
>> Ben Callahan: That's interesting.
So this is the syntax for Harvey.
To really simply,
I mean you can see how this works.
You're just given your queries and
then you're given a way to
sort of call a function.
When the query becomes valid for
the first time, you call a sort
of initialization is the idea.
And then each time the queries active
there's an on function you can call and
an off function.
So when I enter that query for the first
time I can initialize every other
time I enter I can I would run the on and
then when I exit it I can run the off.
Really really simple to
use works pretty well.
They use I think a variation
of the matchMedia polyfill
to implement this in
a more cross browser way.
And then Rob from my office has
written this one mediaCheck,
same kind of thing here.
So you give it in the media here
the media you can just specify
again a media query that you want
to check on and then on entry and
exit you can call some
different functionality.
>> Ben Callahan: So
here's an example of this, okay.
Really, really simple.
This is just a demo of
the mediaCheck working.
This the document here is being
modified with JavaScript.
And as I get smaller it says
this is a smaller screen.
I mean dead simple right.
We're doing that with JavaScript
let's take a look at that demo code.
[COUGH] Sorry.
>> Ben Callahan: So here's our
code that's helping this to work.
Okay, so when we cross this max
width 600 media query, we're
gonna run this function to just literally
change the text that's on the screen.
So we're doing that with
JavaScript based on a break
point that we've defined inside
the mediaCheck object there.
Really simple and this is obviously these
are really dumbed down examples but
you can imagine how I've got
complex navigation interaction and
I need that interaction model to shift.
I mean we use this on several
sites to do that kind of thing.
In fact the DPNL site, you know,
the the nav changes significantly based
on the interaction changes, based on the
resolution, based on the viewport width.
So, we're using that exact thing to create
a different interaction model here.
And also to do things like
clear out the nav state as you cross over,
as you cross over break points.
So pretty cool.
Questions on that, or
is anybody doing that thing already?
>> Ben Callahan: As soon as you start
to build something where there's more
interaction this kind of thing
becomes very necessary, and
there's some great tools out there
to be able to do this already, so.